## Overview

SLURM CLI-API Proxy client is a tool designed to bridge existing applications and scripts that rely on the SLURM CLI. The tool mimics traditional SLURM CLI commands, translating them into REST API calls, enabling seamless integration of existing tools with external SLURM workload managers.

A key use case for this tool is Arvados, an open-source platform designed for managing and processing large biomedical data. One of the key components of Arvados, the Arvados-SLURM dispatcher, is designed to provide access to a local SLURM workload manager, using a CLI-based integration (i.e., using sbatch and related commands under the hood). While this allows Arvados to leverage SLURM for job scheduling and resource management, it requires Arvados nodes to run within the HPC infrastructure where these commands are available. Therefore, when a connection between Arvados and an external SLURM workload manager is needed, setting up the Arvados-SLURM dispatcher requires multiple networking/tunneling tweaks, something that is not desirable on an HPC research infrastructure. For instance, in SURF’s infrastructure, an Arvados cluster deployed on the SURF Research Cloud would require these 'tweaks’ to offload computing tasks to Snellius (the Dutch National Supercomputer), despite both being offered by SURF.

While refactoring Arvados to integrate directly with the SLURM REST API would be an option to address this challenge, the complexity and scale of its codebase make the SLURM CLI-API Proxy client a more cost-effective solution. Based on the SLURM REST API, this proxy integrates seamlessly with Arvados without requiring any modifications to its existing codebase.
